---
title: Introduction
type: docs
---

# Introduction

Here I will talk about the workflow that how I sync all my computers' environment. Below are the tools I integrate with my workflow.

By the way, the operating system I usually use are Linux and Mac. If you are a Windows user, I'm sorry to tell you that here no much valuable information for you.


{{< columns >}}
## [mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup)

Keep your application settings in sync. 

- **Supported OS**: Mac, Linux
- **Supported backup space**: Dropbox, Google drive, iCloud

<--->

## [chezmoi](https://github.com/twpayne/chezmoi)

Manage your dotfiles across multiple diverse machines, securely.

The tool is OS independent, but when you want to sync dotfiles into cross platform you will meet `PATH` issue with symbolic links. I will talk about my temporarily workaround later.

(I have tried yet another dotfiles manager, but there no easy way to avoid it.)
{{< /columns >}}

## Core strategy

Most dotfiles or setting files I prefer using **mackup** because I have more than two personal mac computers. But... I don't want my Dropbox linked too many machines especially VPS. Here I pick out a minimum dotfiles set to use **chezmoi** organize my cross platform machine's environment.

I will describe how I make them work together. Enjoy it.

## Repository structure

```bash
git clone https://github.com/CaptainVincent/env-setup-workflow.git
```

    .
    ├── docs          // Document generated by Hugo and host by github page
    ├── Brewfiles     // The input files that homebrew-bundle auto reinstall need
    ├── scripts       // A set of utility scripts
    └── warning.net   // Server login warning message